doc: Added migration guide for nRF54H20 BICR config (#23448)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/releases_and_maturity/migration/migration_bicr_nRF54H20.rst

       "p7ImpedanceOhms": 50
     }
   }

Low Frequency Oscillator (LFOSC) configuration
==============================================

The following DTS options configure parts of the ``BICR`` → ``LFOSC.LFXOCONFIG`` register:

.. code-block:: dts

   lfosc-mode = "crystal";
   lfosc-loadcap = <15>;

The following elements of the ``LFOSC.LFXOCONFIG`` register are defined in the BICR DTS format file:

* ACCURACY (set using ``lfosc-mode``)
* MODE (``lfosc-mode``)
* LOADCAP (``lfosc-loadcap``)
* TIME (``lfosc-startup``)

The available options for these settings are provided in the following tables.

The JSON format is inside ``lfosc: { lfxo: { ... } }``.

ACCURACY
--------

+----------------------+--------------------+
| DTS (lfosc-accuracy) | JSON (accuracyPPM) |
+======================+====================+
| 20                   | 20                 |
| 30                   | 30                 |
| 50                   | 50                 |
| 75                   | 75                 |
| 100                  | 100                |
| 150                  | 150                |
| 250                  | 250                |
| 500                  | 500                |

> +----------------------+--------------------+

Reviewer: The rows in this and several of the other tables are being collapsed into a single row in the rendered doc

.. _migration_bicr_nrf54h:

Migrating BICR from DTS to JSON
###############################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The nRF54H20 SoC requires a working Board Information Configuration Registers (BICR) configuration to function properly.

In nRF Connect SDK v3.0.0, the format of the BICR configuration file was changed from DTS to JSON files.

Sources
**********

The following files contain the DTS and JSON format definitions for configuring BICR:

* `DTS format definition`_: ``nordic,nrf-bicr.yaml``.
* `JSON format definition`_: ``bicr-schema.json`` (from nRF Connect SDK v3.0.0).

For examples of BICR configurations using both formats, see the following nRF54H20 DK board files:

* `BICR configuration example in DTS format`_, ``nrf54h20dk_bicr.dtsi`` (v2.9.0).
* `BICR configuration example in JSON format`_, ``bicr.json`` (v3.0.0).

Field-matching DTS to JSON
********************************

This section disects the ``nrf54h20dk_bicr.dtsi`` BICR configuration example in DTS format and explains how to port the different parts to JSON.

compatible and reg

> ===================

Author: I'd disagree on this, as we mention already in the H2 chapter each following H3 is part of the nrf54h20dk_bicr.dtsi file

GPIO power configuration
========================

This DTS option configures the ``BICR`` → ``IOPORT.POWER0`` and ``IOPORT.POWER1`` registers:

.. code-block:: dts

   ioport-power-rails = <&gpio1 2>, <&gpio2 2>, <&gpio6 2>, <&gpio7 2>, <&gpio9 4>;

In DTS, this configures GPIO ports.
For example ``<&gpio1 2>`` configures **P1**.

The number after the GPIO instance, from **P1** to **P7**, can be one of the following values:

P1 to P7 GPIO operating mode
----------------------------

+-------------------------+---------------------------+
| **P1** to **P7** GPIO   | **P1** to **P7** GPIO HEX |
| operating mode          | value in DTS              |
+=========================+===========================+
| Unconfigured            | ``0xF``                   |
| Disconnected            | ``0x0``                   |
| Shorted                 | ``0x1``                   |
| External1v8             | ``0x2``                   |
+-------------------------+---------------------------+

For P9, the number after the GPIO instance can be one of the following values:

P9 GPIO operating mode

> ----------------------

Reviewer 2: Unnecessary as well.

| Unconfigured        | ``0xF``               |
| Disconnected        | ``0x0``               |
| Shorted             | ``0x1``               |
| External1v8         | ``0x2``               |
| ExternalFull        | ``0x4``               |
+---------------------+-----------------------+

The following is the DTS configuration from the nRF54H20 DK example:

.. code-block:: dts

   ioport-power-rails = <&gpio1 2>, <&gpio2 2>, <&gpio6 2>, <&gpio7 2>, <&gpio9 4>;

.. note::
   Configuration values use hexadecimal format, even if the ``0x`` prefix is not shown in DTS syntax.

In the JSON configuration, GPIO port assignments are specified within the ``ioPortNumber`` object, with each mode explicitly indicated.

The available port configuration keys include:

+------+--------------------+
| Port | Port configuration |
|      | key                |
+======+====================+
| P1   | p1Supply           |
| P2   | p2Supply           |
| P6   | p6Supply           |
| P7   | p7Supply           |
| P9   | p9Supply           |
+------+--------------------+

The supported operating modes for these ports are:

+--------------------------+--------------------+

> | Supported Operating Mode | JSON configuration |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Supported operating mode | JSON configuration |
```

| P9                   | ``<gpio9 4>``        | EXTERNAL_FULL        |
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

The resulting JSON configuration is structured as follows:

.. code-block:: json

   {
     "ioPortPower": {
       "p1Supply": "EXTERNAL_1V8",
       "p2Supply": "EXTERNAL_1V8",
       "p6Supply": "EXTERNAL_1V8",
       "p7Supply": "EXTERNAL_1V8",
       "p9Supply": "EXTERNAL_FULL"
     }
   }

GPIO power drive and impedance configuration
============================================

This DTS option configures the ``BICR`` → ``IOPORT.DRIVECTRL0`` register:

.. code-block:: dts

   ioport-drivectrls = <&gpio6 50>, <&gpio7 50>;

This section specifies the IO port impedance settings for **P6** and **P7**.

As with the GPIO power configuration, each GPIO reference indicates the corresponding port number, while the second value indicates the port's impedance in Ohms.

In this example, both **P6** and **P7** are configured to use a 50 Ohm impedance.

The nRF54H20 SoC allows you to select from these supported impedance values:

* 33 Ohms
* 40 Ohms
* 50 Ohms
* 66 Ohms
* 100 Ohms

> For more information, consult the datasheet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to the datasheet.
```
Link to the datasheet?

Author: Not sharable at the moment. Removing the sentence

The DTS configuration described in the nRF54H20 DK files can be represented in JSON as follows:

.. code-block:: json

   {
     "ioPortImpedance": {
       "p6ImpedanceOhms": 50,
       "p7ImpedanceOhms": 50
     }
   }

Low Frequency Oscillator (LFOSC) configuration
==============================================

> These DTS options configure parts of the ``BICR`` → ``LFOSC.LFXOCONFIG`` register.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following DTS options configure parts of the ``BICR`` → ``LFOSC.LFXOCONFIG`` register:
```

ACCURACY
--------

+----------------------+--------------------+
| DTS (lfosc-accuracy) | JSON (accuracyPPM) |
+======================+====================+
| 20                   | 20                 |
| 30                   | 30                 |
| 50                   | 50                 |
| 75                   | 75                 |
| 100                  | 100                |
| 150                  | 150                |
| 250                  | 250                |
| 500                  | 500                |
+----------------------+--------------------+

MODE
----

+------------------+-------------+
| DTS (lfosc-mode) | JSON (mode) |
+==================+=============+
| crystal          | CRYSTAL     |
| external-sine    | EXT_SINE    |
| external-square  | EXT_SQUARE  |
| disabled         |             |
+------------------+-------------+

LOADCAP
-------

+---------------------+---------------------------------+
| DTS (lfosc-loadcap) | JSON (builtInLoadCapacitancePf) |
+=====================+=================================+
| Integer [pF]        | Integer [pF], min 1, max 25     |
+---------------------+---------------------------------+

.. note::

>    In the JSON configuration, the load capacitance parameter is only applied if the option ``builtInLoadCapacitors`` is explicitly set to true, as per previous example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   In the JSON configuration, the load capacitance parameter is only applied if the option ``builtInLoadCapacitors`` is explicitly set to true, as in the previous example.
```

TIME (LFXO startup time)
------------------------

+---------------------+-----------------------------+
| DTS (lfosc-startup) | JSON (startupTimeMs)        |
+=====================+=============================+
| Integer [ms]        | Integer [ms], min 1, max 25 |
+---------------------+-----------------------------+

The DTS configuration specifies only the ``MODE`` and ``LOADCAP`` parameters, relying on default values for all other settings.
The JSON configuration provides explicit control over all parameters.

See the following example:

.. code-block:: json

   {
     "lfosc": {
       "source": "LFXO",
       "lfxo": {
         "mode": "CRYSTAL",
         "accuracyPPM": 20,
         "startupTimeMs": 600,
         "builtInLoadCapacitancePf": 15,
         "builtInLoadCapacitors": true
       }
     }
   }

Source
------

The ``source`` option in JSON can be one of the following:

* ``LFXO``, when an external crystal oscillator is in place.
* ``LFRC``, when an external Crystal Oscillator is not in place.

This means that the device can use either ``LFRC`` or ``SYNTH`` as clock sources.

LFRC autocalibration configuration
==================================

> This DTS option configures the ``BICR`` → ``LFOSC.LFRCAUTOCALCONFIG`` register.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This DTS option configures the ``BICR`` → ``LFOSC.LFRCAUTOCALCONFIG`` register:
```

.. code-block:: dts

   lfrc-autocalibration = <20 40 3>;

The three values provided in the BICR DTS format correspond to the LFRC autocalibration configuration:

> * ``temp-interval``: Specifies the interval between temperature measurements, expressed in 0.25-second increments.
> * ``temp-delta``: Defines the temperature change, in 0.25-degree Celsius steps, that triggers a calibration event.
> * ``interval-max-count``: Indicates the maximum number of measurement intervals allowed between calibrations, regardless of temperature variations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* ``temp-interval`` - Specifies the interval between temperature measurements, expressed in 0.25-second increments.
* ``temp-delta`` - Defines the temperature change, in 0.25-degree Celsius steps, that triggers a calibration event.
* ``interval-max-count`` - Indicates the maximum number of measurement intervals allowed between calibrations, regardless of temperature variations.
```

In the DTS property, each variable is mapped as follows:

* A: Temperature measurement interval (``temp-interval``)
* B: Temperature delta for calibration (``temp-delta``)
* C: Maximum intervals between calibrations (``interval-max-count``)

> Use these parameters to precisely control LFRC autocalibration behavior.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use these parameters to precisely control the LFRC autocalibration behavior.
```

Datasheet register field
========================

+---------------------+------------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| DTS value           | JSON variable                      | JSON value                    |
+=====================+====================================+===============================+
| TEMPINTERVAL (A)    | tempMeasIntervalSeconds            | 5                             |
| TEMPDELTA (B)       | tempDeltaCalibrationTriggerCelsius | 10                            |
| INTERVALMAXNO (C)   | maxMeasIntervalBetweenCalibrations | 3                             |
| ENABLE              | calibrationEnabled                 | -                             |
+---------------------+------------------------------------+-------------------------------+

> If ``lfrc-autocalibration`` is set in DTS, the ``ENABLE`` field in ``BICR`` → ``LFOSC.LFRCAUTOCALCONFIG`` will be set automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If ``lfrc-autocalibration`` is set in the DTS, the ``ENABLE`` field in ``BICR`` → ``LFOSC.LFRCAUTOCALCONFIG`` is set automatically.
```

> LFRC Autocalibration is not configured in the JSON configuration files for the DK, as the default values (``4``, ``0.5`` and ``2``) will be good enough for most use-cases.
> However, the DTS example above would translate to JSON as such:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
LFRC autocalibration is not configured in the JSON configuration files for the DK, as the default values (``4``, ``0.5``, and ``2``) are good enough for most use-cases.
However, the previous DTS example would translate to JSON as such:
```
SoC in some places and DK in others. Might be good to use just one of them throughout the doc.

Author: The thing is that the guide is for the SoC, but it takes the DK files as an example. There will be mentions of both. I'm going through both to see if they are mentioned where originally intended.

.. code-block:: json

   {
     "lfrccal": {
       "calibrationEnabled": true,
       "tempMeasIntervalSeconds": 5,
       "tempDeltaCalibrationTriggerCelsius": 10,
       "maxMeasIntervalBetweenCalibrations": 3
     }
   }

.. note::

>    * Use the new default values in please of the old values from the DTS version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * Use the new default values in place of the old values from the DTS version.
```

Author: lol that's a strange typo :D thanks

   * ``tempDeltaCalibrationTriggerCelsius``: In the JSON BICR format, the maximum allowable value for this field is 31.75 °C.
     Therefore, 31.75 is used in place of 40 to ensure compatibility.

> HFXO configuration & startup
> ============================

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
HFXO configuration and  startup
===============================
```

> This DTS option configures the ``BICR`` → ``HFXO.CONFIG`` register.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This DTS option configures the ``BICR`` → ``HFXO.CONFIG`` register:
```

.. code-block:: dts

   hfxo-mode = "crystal";
   hfxo-loadcap = <56>;

> Even if not used in the DTS example, the hfxo-startup parameter can also be configured to set the value of the ``BICR`` → ``HFXO.STARTUPTIME`` register.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Even if not used in the DTS example, the ``hfxo-startup`` parameter can also be configured to set the value of the ``BICR`` → ``HFXO.STARTUPTIME`` register.
```

The following table maps DTS and JSON configuration options for HFXO modes:

+------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------+
| Datasheet register     | DTS variable      | JSON variable                 |
| field                  |                   | (within ``hfxo``)             |
+========================+===================+===============================+
| HFXO.CONFIG: MODE      | hfxo-mode         | mode                          |
+------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------+
| HFXO.CONFIG: LOADCAP   | hfxo-loadcap      | builtInLoadCapacitancePf      |
+------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------+
| HFXO.STARTUPTIME: TIME | hfxo-startup      | startupTimeUs*                |
+------------------------+-------------------+-------------------------------+

> * Depends on ``”builtInLoadCapacitors”: true``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(*) Depends on ``”builtInLoadCapacitors”: true``
```

hfxo-mode
=========

+-----------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| Datasheet (MODE)| DTS (hfxo-mode)   | JSON (mode)       |
+=================+===================+===================+
| Crystal         | crystal           | CRYSTAL           |
| ExtSquare       | external-square   |                   |
| Unconfigured    |                   |                   |
+-----------------+-------------------+-------------------+

The corresponding JSON configuration, based on the previous table, is as follows:

.. code-block:: json

   {
     "hfxo": {
       "mode": "CRYSTAL",
       "builtInLoadCapacitors": true,
       "builtInLoadCapacitancePf": 14
     }
   }

> For reference, the v3.0.0 DK files indicate that the default values have been updated since v2.9.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For reference, the |NCS| v3.0.0 DK files indicate that the default values have been updated since the |NCS| v2.9.0.
```
